networking:

Q - udp vs tcp - when to use them?

    TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) is connection oriented, whereas UDP (User Datagram Protocol) is connection-less. This means that TCP tracks all data sent, 
    requiring acknowledgment for each octet (generally). UDP does not use acknowledgments at all, and is usually used for protocols where a few lost datagrams do not matter.

    Because of acknowledgments, TCP is considered a reliable data transfer protocol. It ensures that no data is sent to the upper layer application that is out of order, 
    duplicated, or has missing pieces. It can even manage transmissions to attempt to reduce congestion.

    TCP provides extensive error checking mechanisms. It is because it provides flow control and acknowledgment of data. UDP has only the basic error checking mechanism using checksums.

    TCP is comparatively slower than UDP. UDP is faster, simpler, and more efficient than TCP.
    
    TCP is used by HTTP, HTTPs, FTP, SMTP and Telnet. UDP is used by DNS, DHCP, TFTP, SNMP, RIP, and VoIP.

Q. how dns work?

    Ans: https://www.verisign.com/en_IN/website-presence/online/how-dns-works/index.xhtml
    Domain Names:
        A domain name is a human-readable name—like amazon.com—that we type in a web browser URL field. The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) manages  these domain names.
        
    Top Level Domain (TLD):
        TLD refers to the last part of a domain name. For example, the .com in amazon.com is the Top Level Domain. The most common TLDs include .com, .net, org, and .info. Country code TLDs represent specific geographic locations. For example: .in represents India. Here are some more examples:

        com – Commercial businesses.
        gov – U.S. government agencies.
        edu – Educational institutions such as universities.
    
    Second Level Domain:
        This is the part of a domain name which comes right before the TLD—amazon.com—for example.
        
    Sub Domain:
        A subdomain can be created to identify unique content areas of a web site. For example, the aws of aws.amazon.com.
        
   How DNS Works?
    When a user types a human-readable address into the browser, the operating system’s DNS client will check for information in a local cache. If the requested address isn’t there, it will look for a Domain Name System server in the local area network (LAN). When the local DNS server receives the query, and the requested domain name is found, it will return the result.
    
    If the name is not found, the local server will forward the query to a DNS cache server, often provided by the Internet Service Provider (ISP). Since the DNS server’s cache contains a temporary store of DNS records, it will quickly respond to requests. These DNS cache servers are called not authoritative DNS servers as they provide request resolution based in a cached value acquired from authoritative DNS servers.
    
    An Authoritative Root Name Server maintains and provides a list of authoritative name servers for each of the top-level domains (.com, .org, etc.).

    An Authoritative Top Level Domain Name Server maintains and provides a list of authoritative name servers for all domains (gmail.com, wikipedia.org, etc.). Its job is to query name servers to find and return the authoritative name server for the requested domain.

Q. how to design my own network?

Q - What Happens When You Type in a URL?
This is how I would explain it:

    You enter a URL into a web browser
    The browser looks up the IP address for the domain name via DNS
    The browser sends a HTTP request to the server
    The server sends back a HTTP response
    The browser begins rendering the HTML
    The browser sends requests for additional objects embedded in HTML (images, css, JavaScript) and repeats steps 3-5.
    Once the page is loaded, the browser sends further async requests as needed.

Q. ping works on which porotocol - ICMP
    used by network router other devices for communication and error information.
    or to update other routers, hosts or network devices.

    Basically ICM msg is sent in certain conditions
    - if packet is too large for recipient to process, the recipient will drop the msg and send a ICMP msg back to the source.
    - when shortest path need to find, this msg is used to find that

    traceroute use ICMP to find 

Q. What are sockets?
Sockets are the main component that allows us to take advantage of the operating system's capabilities to interact with the network. 
You can think of sockets as a point-to-point communication channel between a client and a server. A socket is defined by the IP address of the machine, 
the port on which it listens, and the protocol it uses. The goal of a socket is to communicate processes through the network.

Q. Port scanner with sockets

Q. openssl s_client -connect harbor.drtst.org:8001

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Q. Explain TCP/IP model. Protocols used in respective layers with their functionalities

TCP / IP (Transmission Control Protocol / Internet Protocol) model is a four layered architecture which provides end to end communication, specifying how data should be formed in packets, addressed, transmitted, routed and received. 

The four layers are organized as :

Layer 4 - Application Layer (Topmost Layer) - The application layer of the TCP/IP model is used to handle all process-to-process communication functions. The basic functions which are carried out by this layer are session establishment, maintenance and termination, data conversion, compression, encryption etc.Some of the common protocols used here are :

TELNET - a two-way communication protocol which allows connecting to a remote machine and run applications on it.
FTP(File Transfer Protocol) - allows file transfer among computer users connected over a network. 
SMTP(Simple Mail Transport Protocol) - used to transport electronic mails between a source and destination.
DNS(Domain Name Server) - resolves an IP address into a textual address for hosts connected over a network.

Layer 3 - Transport Layer - The purpose of transport layer is to permit devices on the source and destination hosts for conversation. It defines the level of status of the connection used when transporting data.The main protocols included at Transport layer are 

1. Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) -  TCP is a connection-oriented protocol that guarantees delivery of data and in the same order in which they were sent.

2. User Datagram Protocol (UDP) - UDP is connectionless sending packets in chunks.

Layer 2 - Internet Layer - This layer packs data into data packets known as datagrams, which contain source and destination address information that is used to forward the datagrams between hosts and across networks. This layer is also responsible for routing of these datagrams, along with functions like traffic routing, traffic control, fragmentation. The main protocols included at Transport layer are :

1. Internet Protocol (IP) - used for relaying datagrams across network boundaries.

2. Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) - used by network devices to send error messages and operational information indication

3. Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP) - used to establish multi cast group membership

Layer 1 - Link Layer / Network Access Layer (Lower most Layer) - The link layer combines the physical and data link layer functions into a single layer. This includes frame physical network functions like modulation, line coding and bit synchronization, frame synchronization and error detection. Common protocols include the following:

1. Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) - used to convert an IP address into a physical address

2. Neighbor Discovery Protocol (NDP) - protocol in the Internet protocol suite used with Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)

---------------------------------------------------------------

What is DHCP, how does it work?

DHCP is at the heart of assigning you (and everyone) their IP address. The key word in DHCP is protocol—the guiding rules and process for Internet connections for everyone, everywhere. DHCP is consistent, accurate and works the same for every computer. Remember that without an IP address, you would not be able to receive the information you requested. As you've learned (by reading IP: 101), your IP address tells the Internet to send the information that you requested (Web page, email, data, etc.) right to the computer that requested it.

How DHCP works?

The key word in DHCP is "dynamic." Because instead of having just one fixed and specific IP address, most computers will be assigned one that is available from a subnet or "pool" that is assigned to the network. The Internet isn't one big computer in one big location. It's an interconnected network of networks, all created to make one-on-one connections between any two clients that want to exchange information.

One of the features of DHCP is that it provides IP addresses that "expire." When DHCP assigns an IP address, it actually leases that connection identifier to the user's computer for a specific amount of time. The default lease is five days.

Here is how the DHCP process works when you go online:

Your go on your computer to connect to the Internet.
The network requests an IP address (this is actually referred to as a DHCP discover message).
On behalf of your computer's request, the DHCP server allocates (leases) to your computer an IP address. This is referred to as the DHCP offer message.
Your computer (remember—you're the DHCP client) takes the first IP address offer that comes along. It then responds with a DHCP request message that verifies the IP address that's been offered and accepted.
DHCP then updates the appropriate network servers with the IP address and other configuration information for your computer.
Your computer (or whatever network device you're using) accepts the IP address for the lease term.
Typically, a DHCP server renews your lease automatically, without you (or even a network administrator) having to do anything. However, if that IP address's lease expires, you'll be assigned a new IP address using the same DHCP protocols.

Here's the best part: You wouldn't even be aware of it unless you happened to check your IP address. Your Internet usage would continue as before. DHCP takes place rather instantly, and entirely behind the scenes. We, as everyday, ordinary computer users, never have to think twice about it. We just get to enjoy this amazing and instantaneous technology that brings the Internet to our fingertips when we open our browsers. I guess you could say DHCP stands for "darn handy computer process"...or something like that.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

what is certificate?
SSL certificates are what enable websites to move from HTTP to HTTPS, which is more secure. An SSL certificate is a data file hosted in a website's origin server. 

SSL, more commonly called TLS, is a protocol for encrypting Internet traffic and verifying server identity. Any website with an HTTPS web address uses SSL/TLS. 

What information does an SSL certificate contain?
	SSL certificates include:

	The domain name that the certificate was issued for
	Which person, organization, or device it was issued to
	Which certificate authority issued it
	The certificate authority's digital signature
	Associated subdomains
	Issue date of the certificate
	Expiration date of the certificate
	The public key (the private key is kept secret)

Why we need https?
- privacy, integrity and identification
	- privacy - as no one can evesdrop on your msgs.
	- integrity - a man in middle attack can be avoided.
	- identification - This SSL certificate is valid and has been issued by a legitimate Certificate Authority. You are good to go.

Two encryptions used in ssl:
	symmetric key algorithm - there is only one key to encrypt and decrypt a message.
	asymmetric key algorithm - One key is public, the other one is private. They are paired and work together.Share your public key with anyone. Send it in plain text. use my private key to read the message.

How HTTPS works?
Hypertext transfer protocol secure (HTTPS) is the secure version of HTTP, which is the primary protocol used to send data between a web browser and a website. HTTPS is encrypted in order to increase security of data transfer. 

    - certficate exchange - handshake
	- check Compugter's certificate to make sure they are legit.
	- generate a 'pre-master key' so we can both use it later when we generate a unique key.
	- encrypt that pre-master key with Compugter's public key and then send it to him.
	- use my private key to decrypt the pre-master key.

HTTPS uses an encryption protocol to encrypt communications. The protocol is called Transport Layer Security (TLS), although formerly it was known as Secure Sockets Layer (SSL). This protocol secures communications by using what’s known as an asymmetric public key infrastructure. This type of security system uses two different keys to encrypt communications between two parties:

The private key - this key is controlled by the owner of a website and it’s kept, as the reader may have speculated, private. This key lives on a web server and is used to decrypt information encrypted by the public key.
The public key - this key is available to everyone who wants to interact with the server in a way that’s secure. Information that’s encrypted by the public key can only be decrypted by the private key.

Notes:
	at first connection to secure website, a SSL certificate is downloaded. this has a public key.
	now on any data sent by browser to server will be encrypted by this public key.
	this encrypted data can be decrypted by a private key only which is stored on server.
